# Billy Hurley Music


The purpose of this website is to showcase the work of an up and coming singer songwriter from Limerick called Billy Hurley. He has a good social media presence on Instagram where he uploads covers of popular songs, however the goal of this website was to promote his original music and to give him a greater platform.

## User Experience


In the design portion of this project, I spent a lot of time considering the 5 planes of user experience. This enabled me to be very clear in my vision for the project and this is the lens through which I will explain user experience. 

### The Strategy Plane

The goal for this site is to publicize and legitimize Billy Hurley Music as a brand. He has a great product, it’s about getting it to the people who will appreciate it. A user would want his website to act as a one stop shop, have all the information they want and need about him there alongside easy access to his music. 

### The Scope Plane

The key product requirements and functionality are to explain who Billy is and where people can find his music. Also, there will be a contact section for booking gigs when gigs are viable again. Everything outside of this level of functionality will be a bonus. In the music industry, the website of a musician is typically only a nice landing area for someone to check out when they are interested in a new artist they haven't heard of before. Therefore the vast majority of users on the website will be first time users.

### The Structure Plane

The site is going to be a simple, clean design. There will be an aesthetic background image of Billy for the landing page with a Boostrap navigation bar leading to all the other pages which will follow the same structure. This will allow for first time learning and intuitive navigation throughout the site. 

### The Skeleton Plane

As stated in the structure plane, the design will be quite minimalist with the use of a simple landing page with only one real call to action towards the top of the page. The user will navigate within the site using a Bootstrap navigation bar. A footer at the bottom of the page will direct the user to Billy's social media pages. The gallery page will contain images of Billy, Limerick and Lahinch in a single, double or triple column layout depending on the viewport width. The music page will contain iframes linking to Billy's original music on youtube and will be a single column layout on mobile. Finally, the contact page will contain a blurred out background image and have a form in the middle of the page. See the wireframes directory to see the very preliminary mobile and desktop design ideas. 

### The Surface Plane

The color scheme will be chosen to align with the hero image on the homepage. These colors will be found using the website (coolors.co). This will allow me to pull colors out of the image and find colors that match. I will then build the rest of the color scheme around the colors generated by this application. The images used throughout the project have either been taken profesionally by Billy or I have taken from Shutterstock, with permission of course. These quality of these images will greatly add to the legitamacy of the website and dramatically improve the user experience. 

## User Stories


1. As someone who has never heard of Billy before and I have stumbled across his site, I want the ability to find out what what the website is for instantly. The first thing I will notice when I'm on the website is how it looks, a very nice looking website will encourage me to keep investigating. Once I discover that he is a musician I want to be able to listen to his music to see what he's like. If i like him I want to be able to find out where I can find all of his music. Being able to navigate the site really easily will allow me to find his other music really easily which will encourage me to listen to it. A very attractive design will cause me to spend more time on the site, increasing my chances of listening to more music. 

2. As the owner of a venue who has heard of Billy before and is considering booking him for a gig, I want to be able to listen to his music in a new tab so that I can be sure of my decision. I also want to find out if he does cover versions of popular songs because crowds in bars like to hear songs they've heard before. If I am happy with Billy as the right person to book for a gig I want an easy way to get in contact with him. I do not want to waste time filling out endless details in a form as this may discourage me from booking Billy. I want to send off my query to him in as hassle-free a manner as possible.

3. As a representative from a record label, if I land at Billy's website, I wwill notice the aesthetics of the site first. Seeing a great looking design will show me that Billy takes himself and his music seriously. Next I will want to listen to some of his music as easily as possible. After listening to his music if I want to learn more about him and his image I can go to a section which will show more photos of him. If I like what I hear and see, I want to contact him to be able to talk about setting up a meeting or a phone call regarding joining the label. 


## Features


### General

#### Header
Each page will have a boostrap v4.5.3 navigation bar which collapses down to a burger icon when viewed on smaller screen sizes. On the left hand side of the screen will be his name and on the right will be the menu items - Home, Gallery, Music, Contact.

#### Footer
Each page will also have a footer. This footer will be spaced out icons which link to Billy's social media pages. This will be a very concise way to direct users to his various social pages.

### Home page

#### Background image
The home page will include a background hero image of Billy sitting on logs in the forest with his guitar. The color scheme for the rest of the website will be based off of this image. Billy will be positioned in the center of the image so he is visible on both mobile and desktop. 

#### Jumbotron
There will be a large banner across the home page which I will use to thank users for coming to the site and to direct them to Billy's latest music. This will be the main call to action on the site and will make it clear for the user what the site is directing them to do. 

#### Bottom Banner
There will be a banner across the bottom of the home page to explain what the footer does. This removes any ambiguity for the user, which will improve the user experience.
*change* After consulting with my mentor, this section was removed as we agreed that there actually was no ambiguity as to what the footer meant.

### Gallery
The images for the gallery were a combination of images taken by Billy himself and images taken from Shutterstock, with permission of course. This section allows the user to see Billy in different places and to learn more about him. The images will be automatically grey and will become colorful when hovered. This gallery was based off of a tutorial taught by Fullyworld Web Tutorials and can be found at this link (https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=180p7GLmMyQ).

### Music

#### iframes
I will add three responsive iframes using the boostrap responsive iframe class. This will allow the user to listen to Billy's original music in one convenient location. I will use the bootstrap responsive layout system to have the iframes resize to a single column when viewed on mobile. This feature greatly adds to the UX of this page. 

### Contact

#### Form
This page will include a form which is a necessary feature as it allows users to get in touch with Billy regarding any number of reasons. 


## Features left to implement

### Contact Form
Obviously because I am in the early stages of my coding career I have not learned how to send forms to a server so currently the contact form on the website is just on the front end. I would love to set that up so that it actually leads to a database where Billy can deal with the messages in an efficient manner.

### Gallery
I would love to add a pop up feature to the gallery page for when a user hovers on the image that they also get a write up on Billy and what that photo means to him.

### Timeline
In the future I would like to add a cool horizontal timeline with little icons along it showing how Billy got started in music and what some of his early experiences were. 

## Technologies Used


### HTML5
HTML5 was used as the main language for text and structure of the website.

### CSS3
CSS3 was used to apply custom styling to the plain text that was written in HTML5.

### [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
Boostrap version 4.5.3 was used to help speed up the developing process as it has lots of clean useful code for the most commonly used elements of websites such as navigation bars and buttons. 

### [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
Fontawesome version 5.15.1 was used to add icons to various aspects of the website such as the footer and the contact page. These icons can be very powerful in conveying a very clear message in a very clearn and concise way.

### [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
Google fonts allowed me to choose the perfect font which I felt represented Billy's image the best

## Deployment
To deploy this project I followed the instructions given in the video on the GitHub Pages main website [https://pages.github.com/]. 

I firstly went to my Github repository and went to the settings tab. I then used the automatic page generator. I then imported the readme file to be displayed at this point. Then I deployed the project.



## Testing


### General
* Check that each of the links in the navigation bar bring the user to the correct section of the site
* Check each of the icons in the footer that the bring the user to Billy's social media pages and that they all open in a new tab
* Check that when the page is resized for mobile that all of the content is still viewable. 
* Check all the text to make sure that is visible and there is enough contrast with the background
* HTML5 was put through the W3C Markup Validation Service. On the index.html page, it returned one error. This error was that there was an 'a' link as a child of a button. To fix this I removed the button tag and styled the a link as if it were a button. This solution was found on stackoverflow at this link [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2906582/how-to-create-an-html-button-that-acts-like-a-link]. The contact page returned an error for the form on line 58 of the code, because the ID for the label didn't match the ID for the input of the form. Fixing this just involved me changing the ID of the input to match that of the label. The gallery page did not return any errors, however it did return two warnings as there were section tags which did not contain any headers within them. I fixed this by changing the initial text to a h6 instead of a paragraph and reomved the section tag from the main gallery portion of the page. I received the same warnings when validating the music page. I overcame this issue by changing the paragraph tags to h6 tags. 
* CSS3 was put through the CSS validation service. No error was found within the CSS.

### Home page
* Ensure that the main button on the jumbotron brings the user to Billy's youtube channel and that it opens in a new tab

### Gallery
* Ensure the images render properly on smaller screen sizes

### Music
* Check that the videos dont autoplay on loading the page. 
* Make sure that all links to other artists open in a new tab

### Contact
* Ensure contact is visible against background image
* Use form different ways to make sure the required attribute is working properly 

### Bugs Encountered
* I had an issue with getting the bootstrap responsive video feature to work on the music page. The video kept sizing as 300px by 150px which was far too small on desktop.
* *fix* - I realised that I was linking to version 5 of bootstrap in my document and this version has not added the responsive video feature yet and this was what was causing the issue.

* When I fixed linked to version 4.5.3 of Bootstrap after this issue, the formatting for my navigation bar stopped functioning the way I wanted it to.
* *fix* - I went to the docs for the correct version and re-did my nav bar using this

* When creating the contact page, I had a design idea to use a background image, but I decided that I wanted to blur out the background image. Using the backdrop-filter (blur) function actually caused the footer to be brought up from the bottom of the page. When I did the tried to blur the image on the landing page the same thing happened.
* *no fix* -  Unfortunately, I could not find a CSS or HTML based solution for this bug. What I did to overcome this obstacle was downloaded the free photo editing software [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/). This allowed me to blur the image the way I wanted to and then I added this as a background image using CSS.

* When creating the contact form, I found that when viewed on certain mobile devices, the bottom half of the form would not be visible. 
* *fix* - To fix this issue I just added some simple CSS, where I hid the overflow on the x-axis and set the overflow to 'auto' on the y-axis. 

* When trying to align the form in the center of the page I was finding it difficult to get the text to align to the left side of the parent div.
* *fix* - I found a very helpful answer on stack overflow here [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8097744/how-do-i-center-this-form-in-css/8097900]. The answer explained very clearly how to ensure that the parent div would be centered in the middle of the screen but getting the children to be aligned to the left.

* When I fixed the issue of the alignment of the form, I found that the submit button wasn't aligned in the center like I wanted it, but instead it was aligned to the left.
* *fix* To fix this issue I wrapped the submit button in a div of its own and then aligned this div to the center





## Credits

### Media

All photos of Billy were provided to me by Billy himself and were taken by his friend and photographer Jamie Moore. Images of Lahinch and Limerick were taken from Shutterstock where I got a free trial for a month.  

### Code

* Layout - I used the in-built layout classes provided by Bootstrap for a lot of the layout on the site. This can be read about [here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/layout/overview/)
* Navigation bar - Bootstrap was also used to help created the navigation bar and can be found [here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/components/navbar/)
* Jumbotron - the Bootstrap Jumbotron class was used to help create the eye-catching main section on the home page and can be found [here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/components/jumbotron/)
* Gallery - the gallery was based heavily off of a video made by Fullyworld Web Tutorials on youtube and can be found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=180p7GLmMyQ)
* Iframes - the iframes were made responsive using the bootstrap responsive video feature and can be found [here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/utilities/embed/#about)
* Contact form - I had to re-learn how to create a contact form and I used a combination of the code institute lessons and this lesson provided by [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Your_first_form)


## Acknowledgements 

First and foremost I want to thank Billy for allowing me to use his data to make this project. I also want to thank Jamie Moore, the photos he provided really made the project so much better. I also want to thank the LCETB for enrolling me in this course and the Code Institute for creating such an excellent course. I've been thoroughly enjoying it thus far and am looking forward to completing future projects! Finally, I would like to thank Gurjot my mentor, for giving me excellent feedback and making himself available to me. His feedback really made this project much better!


